---
id: 01J64SFTPXC1JBA5VD6DC5KW31
title: August 25, 2024 - Sunday
description: I plan on having a highly focused and highly productive day.
modified: 2024-08-25T09:33:37-04:00
tags:
  - 2024-journal
  - august24-journal
  - daily-notes
  - programming
---
# August 25, 2024
- Today is going to be a thorough effort in learning, content creation, job hunting, and working on some projects. Yesterday was somewhat disappointing on the focus front for me as I quickly descended into a cycle of web surfing, tutorial hell, and avoidance of the coding space. Yucky. I am doing away with that today - in fact I have a wonderful idea of how I am going to deal with tutorial hell and theme schemin'.
	- The idea will 1.  help me get my YouTube channel launched and 2. make sure that I focus on creating the project I have planned without straying off into random excursions of searching for themes, tutorials, and dev articles that do nothing but waste my time.
		- I am going to prompt Perplexity for 30 Python project ideas and 30 HTML, Typescript/JavaScript, and CSS project ideas to build from scratch. The only kind of help I can use is asking Perplexity for help using a very specific set of criteria. If I am absolutely stuck at a point and need them to get me over the hump, I can ask for a boost by generating code to help me put things together. I will record the entire ordeal and put it on YouTube so I have the public eye to hold me accountable. Maybe it will lead into launching my streaming career, maybe it will get zero views, but regardless, it will teach me to work with my knowledge and tools that I have available to me for creating things with code.
		- I don't know what to call the series yet, maybe "Geaux Code 30 Projects in JavaScript/Python/Go" etc. Could also start the #GeauxCode30Projects challenge trend too. 
	- Anyways, I am excited about that idea and will see how all that plays out. Now another big project I have to do is writing a series about Perplexity so I can make money as a Perplexity affiliate. They contacted me about their new pilot affiliate project they are launching and I had a wonderful idea in how I could use that to get my Medium blog rolling again. 
		- I am going to create the "Learn How to Make Money with Perplexity.ai" series. Basically, I queried six ways you could make money using Perplexity by asking the chat agent six ways I could use it to make money and they gave me so solid solutions. I will make a separate article for each idea and give step by step instructions, plus tools you could use to implement each idea and how to monetize it. The whole plan will be to lead into my CTA which will be "Sign up for a year of Perplexity.ai or XYZ!", and linking the great affiliate deal I have for users to sign up and use the best AI solution out there. 
			- I will also create a "How I Use Perplexity.ai in my Daily Workflow " post for developers to see how they can use the tool in their day to day coding and writing lives.
	- This will be a good way to ease into the whole affiliate marketing world for me and focus on a product that offers a good compensation plan and I wholeheartedly believe is worth the money as it is my favorite AI tool. 
	- It's good I have some money making ideas to implement and get rolling finally while I am on the job hunt and trying to get my life back on track. There are some other to do items today as well, such as getting the MEAN Stack Developer newsletter rolling again, making a Geaux Code blog post, working on some projects, and definitely working on Boot.dev course work.
	- I've got a lot to do today and need to plan accordingly so I can accomplish my goals. I am optimistic though as I have the whole day in front of me and clear, focused mentality that will help me accomplish every thing I need to get done today. 
	- On a personal note, I want to spend a little time on my Sunday to be focused on my spirituality as well. First of all, gratitude is my most valuable asset for getting through my current situation.
		- 1.  I am grateful for Lisa - she is my everything and makes the world spin. She is sexy, cool, and my best friend and I am so lucky to have her in my life.
		- 2. I am grateful that I have the ability to code and a computer to create programs with. Coding has changed my life and the future possibilities are endless with the skill set I continue to practice everyday.
		- 3. I am grateful for Panera - I know this may be an odd one but this place has been my office during my times of homelessness. Their sips club has allowed me to remain properly caffeinated enough to be an effective developer and I don't know how I would get anything done without internet, a solid hangout, and a proper balance of coffee and breakfast food to start every day out right. For about a year now, we have been getting coffee and cinnamon crunch bagels (lately it's been breakfast sandwiches and cinnatopper cinnamon rolls) at 6AM everyday and it has allowed us to feel normal and also take care of ourselves better in the morning.
		- 4. I am grateful to live in the United States. I know I have had a bad attitude about the state of our society and the lack of help we provide for people who have ended up homeless and/or struggling due to forces outside of our control. It has been a nearly impossible struggle to get out of this situation so at times, yes I feel very angry with the lack of empathy and help we provide to people who may have ended up in a bad situation due to things like the pandemic or getting screwed over by an employer. But I think it is important to remember that we get to participate in the functioning of our government and things can happen like a black woman potentially winning the presidency and I need to remember that is what makes our country so great.
		- 5. I am grateful for O'Reilly Media. Their subscription (and offering free trials) has been a game changer for my learning. I need to try and pay for this once I get a chance, but this subscription is the greatest resource on the internet for developers.
	- Alright, I have written over 1100 words, so it is time to go ahead and get on with things and work on my day!

# Day planner
- [ ] Daily Progress
	- [ ] 00:01 - 9:30 Sleep, start morning with Lisa, Plan day
	- [ ] 09:31 - 12:30 Deep Focus Session One
		- [ ] Make money with Perplexity.ai series #series #content #medium 
		- [ ] MEAN Stack Developer Newsletter #MEANStack-Developer
		- [ ] Geaux Code Blog Post #geaux-code #hashnode 
		- [ ] Digital Garden Website #digital-garden 
		- [ ] Andrew's Resume Site #resume 
	- [ ] 12:31 - 13:00 Break
	- [ ] 13:00 - 16:00 Deep Focus Session Two
		- [ ] - [ ] [[Boot.dev]] warmup hour #boot-dev 
		- [ ] Modern Full Stack React #full-stack #web-development 
		- [ ] Django By Example #django 
		- [ ] Vue.js Learning #vuejs 
		- [ ] Svelte Learning #svelte 
	- [ ] 16:01 - 16:30 Break 2 
	- [ ] 16:30 - 19:30 Deep Focus Session Three
		- [ ] Neon Hackathon
		- [ ] Boot.dev #boot-dev 
		- [ ] Work on Projects
		- [ ] Job Search

# Pomodoro Planner
- [ ] Deep Focus Session 1 #deep-focus 
	- [ ] 09:30 - 10:10 🍅 Pomodoro #1 ^gmyh
	- [ ] 10:10 - 10:15 Short Break
		- What did I accomplish
		- Reflection
		- What could I have done better
		- What still needs to be done
	- [ ] 10:15 - 10:55 🍅 Pomodoro #2
	- [ ] 10:55 - 11:00 Short Break
	- [ ] 11:00 - 11:40 🍅 Pomodoro #3
	- [ ] 11:40 - 11:45 Short Break
	- [ ] 11:45 - 12:25 🍅 Pomodoro #4


  Total pomodoros: 4
  Total work time: 2 hours, 40 minutes
  Total rest time: 15 minutes

# [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]
- [Fetching Title#ttuf](https://strapi.io/blog/how-to-build-a-real-estate-listing-app-with-sveltekit-and-strapi)
- [Fetching Title#diml](https://github.com/HermanMartinus/bearblog/)
- 
# Topics
- #medium Perplexity Series
# Notes

# Content
- Perplexity.ai Series