---
id: 01J9VJFCVF6Q5PJK1YQZ6NHTG9
modified: 2024-10-10T12:11:03-04:00
title: October 10, 2024 - Thursday
description: Got a lot to get done today
tags:
  - journal
  - daily-notes
  - october24-journal
  - 2024-journal
---
- # October 10, 2024 - Thursday
	- Today is getting started a little late, but same as usual. Lot's to do today. I want to focus a bit on coding and writing if I can so I'm going to try and get all my planning and productivity stuff out of the way while on the bus and then get down to the nitty gritty work as soon as we make it over to Panera. I need to be a little bit free in the mind so I can actually write and get something published today. I have been getting stuck on my words and trying to sound not like myself in a way? I don't know if that makes any sense. I have things on my mind that need to be put down into words and saved to the web.
	- I have a lot of app ideas I need to formulate and start working on really. The bike trail app is one that I have kind of more of a clear picture of how it would work and look. The Deep Focus app is a bit of a concept but I'm not clear visually as to how I want it to look. I want it to be a productive space with tools to do what you need, but not so distracting that it keeps you from what you really need to be doing. I like my Obsidian set up because it has every tool you could ever need, but at times it can be a bit much. I think I've written enough for now and am going to slide on over to my work.

- # Day planner
- [ ] Progress
	- [ ] 00:01 - 12:00 Sleep,  dropped off saw, headed to Roxboro st
	- [ ] 12:01 - 13:30 Ride Bus
	- [ ] 13:31 - 15:00 Focus Session One
	- [ ] 15:01 - 17:00 Meet Max
	- [ ] 15:01 - 16:30 Focus Session Two
	- [ ] 16:31 - 18:00 Focus Session Three
	- [ ] 18:31 - 20:00 Focus Session Four
	- [ ] 20:01 - 23:59 Rest of night

- # [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]

- # Topics

- # Notes

- # Projects

- # Content
- 