---
id: 01J95WV417MX3D9YYTVEE8887Q
title: October 2nd, 2024 - Wednesday
description: Going to get the business started for real today
modified: 2024-10-03T12:45:53-04:00
tags:
  - 2024-journal
  - october24-journal
  - daily-notes
  - journal
  - programming
---
# October 2nd, 2024 - Wednesday
- There's a lot of reasons that I haven't been productive the last few days, but I can sure attribute a major one to the slacking I've done on my daily notes and morning pages. I'm going to change that today and get back on track with things.
- So today started off on the wrong foot. I wanted to go get some breakfast cause I was starving all night. I tried to just stay awake because it was already about 5:00 am and I didn't want to miss breakfast. Lisa was cold however so I went to keep her warm. The problem is that she is impossible to wake up and when I attempted to do so, she refused and made a fight out of it just long enough so we missed the 400 bus by a few minutes. Had she just woken up like a normal person would who's running late and not make me fear that she will just say fuck it to the whole day, we could have been fed, happy and on our merry way. But right now I am currently waiting for her to see if she got her food stamp card yet, which I fear she probably did not. That means it will probably be at least another hour or two before I eat minimum. This is not the start to the day that I had in mind really. I was hoping that I would have eaten a bunch of great breakfast food and then showered, and been on my way to work. I did get a shower which was important, but I am so god damn hungry and my blood sugar is fucking through the wall. Lisa needs to start waking up easier, please god for the love of yourself, let her see how ridiculous she is being through all of this. Thank you.

- # Day planner
- [x] Planner ✅ 2024-10-03
	- [x] 00:01 - 11:30 Sleep, clinic, plan day, shower ✅ 2024-10-03
	- [x] 11:31 - 13:00 Pomodoro Focus Session One ✅ 2024-10-03
3
- # [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]
	- [GitHub - OmkarPathak/Data-Structures-using-Python: This is my repository for Data Structures using Python](https://github.com/OmkarPathak/Data-Structures-using-Python)
	- [GitHub - mediar-ai/screenpipe: 24/7 local AI screen & mic recording. Build AI apps that have the full context. Works with Ollama. Alternative to Rewind.ai. Open. Secure. You own your data. Rust.](https://github.com/mediar-ai/screenpipe)
	- [Apache ECharts](https://echarts.apache.org/)
	- 