---
id: 01J6TW88PHJBB5ZQG39SKDABPT
title: September 2, 2024 - Monday
description: Today was a pretty brutal day, but I survived and got my daily note in.
modified: 2024-09-02T23:16:18-04:00
tags:
  - daily-notes
  - 2024-journal
  - september24-journal
  - journal
---
# September 2, 2024 - Monday
- Today was one of the worst days of my life, due to the sheer shittiness I felt all day from missing the clinic this morning. I finally feel a bit better now at 10:45 PM and am scrambling to make something of my day. I am happy that I at least got to get my daily note in so I am going to take at least a bit of time to get my morning page in and a quality one at that.
- This week is going to get a heavy dose of freelance, writing, portfolio boosting, and money making. I have set a goal of making $100, which is totally reasonable and achievable. That will give me a good starting point to keep building off of each week. Overdoing it does nothing but discourage even trying to make money, so we'll start with that. I need to get my Macbook back so focusing on that as another milestone will probably help me focus a lot better. I need to focus on my creative side of things as that will be the quickest and surest way to get money coming in (donations I mean.)
- I think that I need to start doing some simple money making things like writing and answer any calls for help on Craigslist. It's also time to get goin on Upwork again and I will start putting good time into that. I want to get back into the freelance book as a guide and get active with that freelance community once again. These are all very doable actions that I can get started on ASAP.


# Daily Planner
- [ ] Progress 
	- [ ] Night Plan
- 22:54 
	- [x] Set up a backend for portfolio site ✅ 2024-09-02
	- [x] Salvage the night ✅ 2024-09-02
	- [x] Plan content ✅ 2024-09-02
	- [x] Make money ✅ 2024-09-02
- 22:51 
	- [x] Set up a backend for portfolio site ✅ 2024-09-02
	- [x] Salvage the night ✅ 2024-09-02
- 23:11 
	- [x] Is this a Thino task? ✅ 2024-09-02
	 
	- [x] 23:11 This is a thino task ✅ 2024-09-02
- [x] 23:13 Plan day with thino
- [x] 23:14 Create 10 Thino's a day
- [x] 23:14 Plan projects for week
- [x] 23:15 Is this one
- [x] 23:15 I guess so
- [x] 23:15 Try plugins
- [ ] 23:15 I get it now 