---
id: 01J84B270JACY83NXD678DWKKT
title: September 19, 2024 - Thursday
description: This is going to be a money making Thursday for the ages.
modified: 2024-09-19T12:56:00-04:00
tags:
  - 2024-journal
  - september24-journal
  - journal
  - daily-notes
---
# September 19, 2024 - Thursday
- It is already Thursday, but it is going to be the best Thursday I've had in a long time. I am going to have a comeback for the rest of Sprint Four to the likes of which nobody has ever seen before. I'm going to build the hugest projects, write the best code, and make so much money that you won't believe how much money we've made. Oh I can't wait for the election to be over and hopefully Kamala wins. 
- Anyways, I need a big day today out of myself - I don't know if I will actually be getting any sleep and that's ok, but I really need to deliver on finding work, clients, or a mixture of the two so we can start getting money to get out of this situation and into a house or a van or something. I have the full skillset and capability to do just that. I just need to sit down and fucking focus. Time to get down to business ya'll.

- # Day planner
- [ ] Progress
	- [x] 00:01 - 1:45 Plan out the day and rest of week/weekend ✅ 2024-09-19
		- [x] Plan in Asana and Digital Garden ✅ 2024-09-19
		- [x] Make a plan for Tar Heel Dev Studio ✅ 2024-09-19
		- [x] Make a plan for content ✅ 2024-09-19
		- [x] Get to work ✅ 2024-09-19
	- [x] 1:45 - 2:00 Start preparing to get coding ✅ 2024-09-19
	- [x] 2:01 - 6:00 Focus Session 1 ✅ 2024-09-19
		- [ ] [[GeauxWeisbeck4.dev]] Digital Garden Site
			- [ ] [[Backend Roadmap Home]] and projects
			- [ ] [[Frontend Roadmap Home]] and projects
			- [ ] [[Computer Science Roadmap]]
			- [ ] [[System Design Roadmap]] and projects
		- [ ] [[AndrewWeisbeck.com]] Resume SIte
		- [ ] [[Tar Heel Dev Studio]] Website
			- [ ] Contact Business owners
			- [ ] Write blog posts
			- [ ] Add project section
			- [ ] Marketing
			- [ ] Business plan
			- [ ] Create sites for projects
	- [ ] 06:01 - 13:00 Go to clinic and work on Tar Heel Dev Studio
	- [ ] 13:01 - 17:00 Focus Session 2
		- [ ] Finish Tar Heel Dev Studio
			- [ ] 5 Blog Posts
			- [ ] Deploy site
			- [ ] 