---
id: 01J8D9GM4EYDDGCWY2T9VTX468
modified: 2024-09-22T12:53:05-04:00
title: September 22, 2024 - Sunday
description: It's Sunday, the last day of Sprint Four and there are plenty lessons to take away from failure.
tags:
  - daily-notes
  - journal
  - september24-journal
  - 2024-journal
---
- # September 22, 2024 - Sunday
	- Following up on Sprint Four of this year is going to be a little depressing given how much energy and expectation I had going into these last two weeks. I had just finished my College Football Blog, really decided to dive into Tar Heel Dev Studio, and figured that I was going to build my digital garden from scratch. The result? Tar Heel Dev Studio is ready to go, but should have been deployed last weekend, I haven't touched the CFB blog once, and have made almost no progress in learning. I can't take all the blame because I was sick (likely covid) the first week and the second week was a fucking battle of money and problems that seemingly could not take a day off. I learned a couple big lessons from Sprint Four, the number sprint that represented my favorite number.
	- The first lesson is that expectations will always let you down. We always expect more than we should expect or more than us or anyone can handle. I think from now on my expectations should always be minimal to not let myself or anyone else down in the future. The next lesson I need to take away is that life is purely unpredictable and one thing that you relied on the day before cannot be relied upon the next day. People will always disappoint you and you can't rely on anyone but yourself. It's a sad and cynical point of view, but it is an honest and real take on things. I am going to keep these things in mind as I plan out for sprint number 5 as I take on more realistic expectations for myself.
	- Now the failures, there were many and they were big. I produced no content, made no progress in learning, and failed to reach many of my goals. I think there were external factors that I can honestly point my finger at and I will. I will not dog my own efforts because I executed on my part of things most of the time, but there are external factors I need to aim at to minimize the impact of  relying on things that I can't control. They are affecting my life way to much so in order to accomplish my goals, I totally need to focus on eliminating their impact on my life. How to do that? Simple, figure out how to get some income going. What is that in detail? Not so simple. First things first, gotta get Tar Heel Dev Studio going, get some projects going that make money, and apply for jobs. That has been the goal  all along, but it is now apparent that bringing in money is of paramount importance and I can't make it a result of my actions, but they need to be the entire focus of my actions for this next sprint. 
	- It's overwhelming, stressful, and a lot of pressure that I feel even just writing and thinking about it, but I work well under pressure. I think breaking down the actions to take and simplifying what needs to be done will make it easier. Ask for help where people can reasonably help you, do what I need to do, and stick to that grind until that first dollar flows in. Once the first dollar comes in, the rest will be history. Ok, time to get on with the show.

- # Day planner
- [ ] Progress
	- [ ] 00:01 - 13:00 Sleep, morning stuff, prepare for day
	- [ ] 13:01 - 17:00 Focus Session 1
		- [ ] [[Tar Heel Dev Studio]]
		- [ ] [[GeauxWeisbeck4.dev]]
		- [ ] Content
		- [ ] Plan sprint 5
	- [ ] 17:01 - 23:59 Learn and shallow tasks
		- [ ] [[Django 5 By Example]]
		- [ ] [[Essential TypeScript 5, Third Edition]]

- # [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]
	- [Why Generalists Own the Future](https://every.to/chain-of-thought/why-generalists-own-the-future?ref=dailydev)

- # Topics

- # Notes

- # Goals
	- [ ] 1. Deploy Tar Heel Dev Studio
	- [ ] 2. Email 10 new clients
	- [ ] 3. Post content
