---
id: 01JAT3DPS63JNGW9AZ3DWZ96JR
title: October 22, 2024 - Tuesday
description: Today is going to be one of the best days of work I've ever had, period.
modified: 2024-10-22T13:22:40-04:00
tags:
  - october24-journal
  - 2024-journal
  - journal
  - daily-notes
---
- # October 22, 2024 - Tuesday
	- Today is going to be one of those days where everything just happens. Not that anything has to go right, or anything specific has to get done, just that I am productive and happy because I was productive. My goal is to stay on task with what I plan, but I won't be mad if I get a little side tracked, as long as I stay 80% on track - 80/20 rule with everything. Need to get my 100 days of publishing content post out, finish Astro Garden Theme, share the Geaux Flow, create content, get my portfolio updated, and apply for jobs.
	- I have anointed a new term for my deep work practice that I've been using - the Geaux Flow. The Geaux Flow is my formally termed method for a non-formal but structured flow of deep work that allows one to be creative and have freedom in their work, yet have the discipline to stay on track and focused. It's a ying-yang approach to productivity that I think works for ADHD minded people. There is more to come shortly!

- # Day planner
- [ ] Progress
	- [ ] 00:01 - 9:00 Sleep, eat breakfast at bojangles, plan day, plan Geaux Flow, Start work
	- [ ] 9:01 - 10:30 Focus Session One
	- [ ] 10:31 - 12:00 Focus Session Two
	- [ ] 12:01 - 13:30 Focus Session Three
	- [ ] 13:31 - 15:00 Focus Session Four
	- [ ] 15:01 - 16:30 Focus Session Five
	- [ ] 16:31 - 18:00 Focus Session  Six
	- [ ] 18:01 - 23:59 Figure out rest of night

- # [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]
	- [What is a feed? (a.k.a. RSS) | About Feeds](https://aboutfeeds.com/)
	- [Inspirational Websites Roundup: Webflow Special #6 | Codrops](https://tympanus.net/codrops/2024/10/14/inspirational-websites-roundup-webflow-special-6/?ref=dailydev)
	- [10 Best Resources to Learn Software Architecture in 2025 | by javinpaul | Javarevisited | Oct, 2024 | Medium](https://medium.com/javarevisited/10-best-resources-to-learn-software-architecture-in-2025-2524ac91dc76)
	- [17 Projects for Developers to Build AI Features 100x Faster 👩‍💻🔥 - DEV Community](https://dev.to/latitude/17-projects-for-teams-to-build-ai-features-100x-faster-nbn?ref=dailydev)

- # Topics

- # Notes

- # [[100 Days of Publishing Content]]
	- ## [[Day One - 100 Days of Publishing Content Challenge]] #medium 

- # Songs
