---
id: 01J7BJQZEJ2N4BS8TZX8FKWJTK
title: September 9, 2024 - Monday
description: It's my new most productive and favorite day of the week.
tags:
  - 2024-journal
  - monday
  - september24-journal
  - daily-notes
  - journal
modified: 2024-09-10T08:53:52-04:00
---
# September 9, 2024 - Monday
- So I have a new approach to being happy and that is cultivating a positive attitude about each day. My new thing is making Monday my best day of the week. For too long, I saw Monday as something to ruin my Sunday over. In my early 20s, I would usually be hungover and cutting my teeth on some brutal customer service work - totally see why I was unhappy. Later on, it was super hard for me to wake up on the first day of the week after spending the whole weekend wide awake and having fun. But now I see it as an exciting day to get back on my grind in front of my computer, blasting away code in my code editor and writing blog posts to share with the world.
- Life is really about perspective in a lot of ways. Anything can be bad or good when you think about it. My drug addiction was good when I had drugs, but bad when I didn't. My previous jobs were good on payday, but terrible on any other day when I was stuck slaving away. You can't make bad things good, but you can make your perspective on them good. Take my homelessness for example - recently I have decided to make it an asset of mine, rather than the worst thing to happen in my life, equating to my social and economic "rock bottom". But when I take a look at homelessness from my positive lens, I have gotten to focus on becoming a better programmer, spend more time with Lisa, enjoy every day of life by not being stuck in an office, I get to camp all the time, no schedule to follow, new perspective on life, no reliance on material things, more time to read and learn, appreciation for the little things, meeting people I'd never otherwise meet - the list can go on and on.
- If I can make being homeless positive, you can make anything in your life positive. Trust me, there are lots of unpleasant things about being homeless - getting judged by people, being hungry a lot of the time, not having money, people trying to steal your girlfriend, having your girlfriend be homeless, sleeping on a wooden board in a tent - there's more but I don't want to go down negative pathways that are best left untraveled. My whole point is that you are wasting every precious second of your life when you worry about things, feel miserable, and have a constant need for more. Imagine the freedom you could have if you didn't have to worry about your car payment, house payment, or your job. Don't become irresponsible and quit doing any of those things, but try to see the positive in your stressors. Maybe your car payment makes you feel like you are helping the car loan man put food on his table. Your house payment makes you a homeowner (sorta). Your job gives you something to do every day. If something makes you so miserable in your life that you can't do this, then I don't think you need it to be a part of your life. Nobody is forcing us to miserable and unhappy!

# Day planner
- [ ] Progress
	- [x] 00:01 - 06:00 Sleeping ✅ 2024-09-09
	- [x] 06:01 - 10:00 Breakfast at St. Joseph's and clinic ✅ 2024-09-09
	- [x] 10:01 - 11:00 Plan day, sprint, and prepare for focus session ✅ 2024-09-09
	- [x] 11:01 - 15:00 Focus Session 1 ✅ 2024-09-10
		- [x] Writing ✅ 2024-09-10
			- ### WeisMind #weismind 
			- ### Hashnode #hashnode #geaux-code 
			- ### Dev.to #dev-to 
			- ### Medium #medium 
		- [x] Django By Example #django ✅ 2024-09-10
		- [x] Portfolio #portfolio #geauxweisbeck4 ✅ 2024-09-10
	- [x] 15:01 - 16:00 Eat and break ✅ 2024-09-10
	- [x] 16:01 - 20:00 Focus Session 2 ✅ 2024-09-10
		- [x] Plan this when we get to here ✅ 2024-09-10

# [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]


# Topics

# Notes

# Sprint 
- ## Focus on Content
	- Blog posts are crucial to get done and plan today
	- Work on Django by Example - want to polish my skills in Python and its frameworks
	- Typescript practice
	- Roadmap.sh
