---
id: 01J7PKCXAVYJ1GQSAHFMSXQ6ZK
title: September 13, 2024 - Friday
modified: 2024-09-13T17:16:49-04:00
description: It is Friday the 13th - oh no!
tags:
  - 2024-journal
  - september24-journal
  - daily-notes
  - journal
---
# September 13, 2024 - Friday
- Well, it is now 5:08 PM and I am just getting started working on things. Had a lot to do today with Lisa and we actually had a pretty good day overall. We went over to Chapel Hill and ate lunch at IFC, got coupons to the Thrift store and spent $50 on clothes, an air mattress, shoes, and other stuff. Got some food from IFC and then came back over here. It is about 5:10 right now and this is probably the latest I've ever got to kicking my work day off.
- I need to make some important choices on how to spend my time, but I think I will start with coding.

# Day planner
- [ ] Progress
	- [ ] 00:01 - 17:00 Chapel Hill
	- [ ] 17:01 - 17:30 Prepare for work
	- [ ] 17:31 - 20:00 Focus Session 1
	- [ ] 20:01 - 23:59 Work on stuff

- # [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]
	- **Hello WeisMind Community!**Welcome to the very first issue of "Fantastic Friday Fun," your weekly dose of the most entertaining and intriguing happenings from the past week. I am thrilled to finally share this newsletter with you, and I want to start by expressing my heartfelt gratitude for giving WeisMind a chance. Your support means the world to me, and I'm excited to share some fantastic content with you.As a special thank you for being part of this journey, I'm offering a **free 30-day subscription to our premium level**. With this subscription, you'll receive a digital copy of our monthly zine, exclusive special posts that nobody else gets, and a surprise that you'll have to subscribe to discover.In this inaugural issue, we'll dive into the **five most entertaining things that happened this week**. From quirky stories to fascinating discoveries, we've curated a list that's sure to bring a smile to your face and keep you engaged.So, let's get started and make this Friday fantastic! **Stay tuned for the top 5 entertaining highlights of the week, and thank you once again for being part of the WeisMind community!**