---
id: 01J8N62JKSHYQRF2PJ3WZ4XZAR
title: September 25, 2024 - Wednesday
modified: 2024-09-25T16:43:34-04:00
description: I am getting a late start on the day because we were taking care of lots of stuff today.
tags:
  - 2024-journal
  - september24-journal
  - daily-notes
  - journal
---
# September 25, 2024 - Wednesday
- Got a late start to the day, but it is ok. Getting lots of things crossed off the check list. Got a new t-shirt and underwear at the church, but no shower or breakfast. I am going to lock in and unload on Tar Heel Dev Studio this afternoon once I get situated at Barnes and Noble. At the bus stop now and thinking about some things that might make a good writing exercise. 
- If I could take a bus trip anywhere right now with Lisa, we would hop on the bus and go to New York without a doubt. On the way back we could visit Philly, Boston, and D.C. - even Baltimore if we feel like it. Maybe we could just start travelling for a living - that would be really dope. Shit, its really not that far from reality when you think about it. Get a remote job and a hot spot so I can work from anywhere, especially on a train or bus. We could stay at various Air BnB's and make a blog about the Air BnB and the other adventures that happen during our stay. 

- # Day planner
- [ ] Progress
	- [x] 00:01 - 15:00 Storm, hang with friends, try to sleep, pickup clothes at church, go to clinic, Lisa made money, checked out Trosa, tried to get Lisa's food stamp card. ✅ 2024-09-25
	- [x] 15:01 - 15:30 Interview ✅ 2024-09-25
	- [x] 15:30 - 16:30 Plan rest of day ✅ 2024-09-25
	- [ ] 16:31 - 20:30 Focus session
	- [ ] 20:01 - 23:59 Finish off day

- # [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]
	- [Site Unreachable](https://crates.io/crates/rainfrog)
	- [9 Tailwind Hover Effects Examples 2024 - ThemeSelection](https://themeselection.com/tailwind-hover-effect-example/?ref=dailydev#h-opacity-hover-example)
	- [Taro's Job Board for Software Engineers](https://www.jointaro.com/blog/taros-job-board-for-software-engineers/?ref=dailydev)
	- [My Software Bookshelf | olano.dev](https://olano.dev/blog/my-software-bookshelf/?ref=dailydev)

- # Topics

- # Notes

- # Projects

- # Content

