---
id: 01J7XG3GE5GG4922ZRTPC9AW3J
modified: 2024-09-16T09:39:41-04:00
title: September 16, 2024 - Monday
description: Time to get the week started off the right way.
---
# September 16, 2024 - Monday
- Well to say that last week was a total disaster would be a fucking understatement. Now, to give myself a break, I was pretty damn sick and it sucked. That really was kind of the killer - and finding a kitty and deciding to help it survive. But it was frustratingly shitty and I got absolutely almost nothing that I wanted to done. I am happy that I made a lot of progress with Tar Heel Dev Studio. But I tried writing a WeisMind article for like four out of the seven days. Asana said that they're ending my subscription early it was so bad.... jking but you get it.
- I am not going to spend a lot of time on my morning pages today because I do need to get on my grind, but I may add on to this throughout the day.

- # # Day planner
	- [ ] Progress
		- [ ] 00:01 - 10:00 Plan day, go to clinic, think about computer reset
		- [ ] 10:01 - 14:00 Focus Session 1
			- [ ] [[WeisMind]] First Post #weismind 
			- [ ] [[Tar Heel Dev Studio]] Finish Website and write blog posts
			- [ ] [[GeauxWeisbeck4.dev]] Create digital garden #digital-garden 
			- [ ] [[Hashnode]] Blog Post #hashnode 
			- [ ] [[Dev.to Blog]] Post #dev-to 
		- [ ] 14:01 - 15:00 Break
		- [ ] 15:01 - 19:00 Focus Session 2
		- [ ] 19:01 - 21:00 Clean Tent
		- [ ] 21:01 - 23:59 If its not raining code

- # [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]

- # Topics

- # Notes

- # Sprint Four, Week 2
	- So I need to basically get a do over of last week. Don't want to be negative on myself but that was fucking bullshit.
	- Re-date the tasks on Asana, start over.
