---
id: 01J71D4TT1SSXNZAJNB0XA2PHP
title: September 5, 2024 - Thursday
description: The beginning of something new and beautiful - an Obsidian and Logseq workflow
modified: 2024-09-09T10:39:56-04:00
tags:
  - 2024-journal
  - september24-journal
  - daily-notes
  - journal
---
# September 5, 2024 - Thursday
- I am about to embark on an experiment that one could view as a waste of time, duplicative, or even just flat out nerdy. I am going to combine Notion, Logseq, and Obsidian to figure out a new workflow that utilizes the best features from each tool to maximize productivity and output. The reason why is not what you think either. It's not because I think I need a more efficient workflow or that it will change me in some dramatic way - it won't. I am already inefficient because of ADHD and any workflow that becomes more complex just gets in the way. 
- Rather I am trying to get an idea for what kinds of user behaviors I notice from a developer who struggles with ADHD, deep focus, and getting the most out of their day with the limited time they have. I am going to begin working on my seminal SaaS/Micro-SaaS idea and the main concept behind the entire application is helping ADHD people who need to get into a deep focus state to be successful (often times developers), succeed in achieving the deep work state as Cal Newport talks about in his wonderful book, [[Deep Work]]. These tools have all been useful to me and I see where each has their own benefits but also overlap in certain areas, which almost makes it feel like having all three installed on your computer is a waste of memory and effort. I can assure you it is not - the sheer utility and happiness that I derive from my time wasting note taking efforts heavily outweigh the massive costs in time I've accumulated over the year that would qualify me for a chapter 13 filing for productivity bankruptcy. People view note taking as an arduous task and that it should only benefit you as much as it helps you become better at work, learning, or productivity. 

> [!NOTE]
>  which I find the idea of using productivity tools for the purpose of becoming more productive a good strategy, but also dumb if you just want to be seen as a productive person - we place far too much value on productivity due to our addiction to capitalism and there comes a point in time where productivity just becomes redundant. Consider a writer who wants to write more, so they use a tool like Obsidian for writing and taking notes. They also have a CMS (Content Management System) like maybe, Wordpress, which is a tool for publishing writing and has a text editor that you write your words in and publish for the world to read. But to plan those tasks you also have productivity software like Asana where you write down every task you need to get done in your sprint that links to Notion, which is another writing tool like Obsidian and Wordpress (it is sometimes even used as a CMS, oh yeah, Obsidian can be used for that too when you think about it), which have plugins that allow you to create sprints on a Kanban board, just the same exact function as Asana, rendering it useless but yet I have all of these tools which cost money and use them simultaneously and somehow justify this insane logic as necessary and appropriate for my everyday needs when in reality, it slows me down and makes me less productive. So when you really think about it - productivity tools make us less productive overall.... But I am ok with this because I have recently become unconcerned about productivity, something I will get to.

- I actually don't see productivity tools as boosting productivity, but rather slowing it down but this is necessary for organization. Sometimes people think I'm insane with how many productivity tools I use, especially ones that are typically used for collaboration with other teammates when I usually work by myself. That is until you realize how bad my ADHD is and regret ever pointing out how anti-productive my productivity workflow is because you get a long rant that descends into a gripe lecture about homelessness, billionaires, and why I think Rust is the best language to think about learning and using, but I may never actually learn and use it because I'd rather just tell you about how you should go learn and use it.
- This exercise in creating a productivity tool will hopefully yield extrinsic rewards for my efforts because I am severely in need of income, but it would be unwise to underestimate the powerful intrinsic rewards it will have. It will make me so happy to have a productivity tool that I use to be less productive while telling everybody else how to become more productive by using my tool and giving advice and resources freely to lure you into my sales funnel. My addiction to programming relies on the feeling that I get when I solve challenging problems over and over again, going from stressed and on the brink of smashing my computer to bits moving to an elevated euphoria that shimmers through my being seeing the end product in a web browser and being able to function in the most simplest of forms, the MVP (Minimum Viable Product). 
- So today I embark on that journey of using productivity to be unproductive, but I'm going to somehow have the most productive day of my whole life.

# Day planner
- [x] Progress ✅ 2024-09-09
	- [x] 00:01 - 12:00 Work, sleep, clinic ✅ 2024-09-09
	- [x] 12:01 - 13:30 Ride the bus, read and find spot to work ✅ 2024-09-09
	- [x] 13:31 - 17:30 Deep Focus Session 1 ✅ 2024-09-09
	- [x] 17:31 - 21:30 Deep Focus Session 2 ✅ 2024-09-09

# [[Resources, Readings, and Links]]

# Projects
- [[GeauxWeisbeck4.dev]]
- [[WeisMind]] Website, Newsletter, and Blog
- [[Tar Heel Dev Studio]]
- [[Django CFB Blog]]

# Sprint 3 Week Two
